# PWK 2020 Journey, a path to OSCP Part 1

I started my journey of studying towards OSCP in 2015, after an initial 90 days of lab time my day job along with a new baby made me place it firmly on the back burner! the initial 90 days were frustrating and although I as making progress I found it difficult to find any flow or natural flair for he techniques. Yes I understood the technical side, but the execution was very different.

Fast forward to January 2020, the project that took up my time since 2015 had finished needing my attention and children were now old enough to give more free time back to studies. From Early December 2019 I had decided to focus on personal technical development as my Master by Research in 2015 was the last piece of formal training I had completed and it was time to go through my tool box and appraise where I was in terms of skills and where the wider market is heading in terms of requirements and opportunities. So In this time I completed the Udacity Developing Android Apps with Kotlin course (which was excellent) as I have a professional interest in the Android ecosystem specifically for specialist use's in hot dusty and secure environments, that is the subject of a different post! Although seemingly a very different subject it actually helped my develop my weak software development skills (I have never been a developer, I have picked up bits of Python but never been what I would describe as proficient) in a structured manner. I cannot reinforce this enough, for OSCP you need to be able to look at code and follow the flow of what it does in terms of variable declaration, loops and to understand or to figure out what various functions do.

## The labs V1
So I picked up the OSCP or more accurately (Penetration Testing with Kali Linux (PWK)) in the January by purchasing 60 days of lab time, that effectively carried on from my pervious attempt several years ago. I started this with the intention of targeting an exam in early March. I compiled a list of resources to assist with my studies and the mjkranch.com Tips for success in PWK guide was an excellent early resource. Essentially this guide provided a path through the lab and exercises to try and build experience on the exercises within the lab course work. He suggests that the following order is undertaken.

1. Study chapters 1-4
2. Do the initial Lab range recon (mapping the network IP's, Hostnames and DNS)
3. Chapters 5.1, 9-11, 14 and 16 (skipping Buffer Overflow, Client Side Exploits, Web and Tunnelling)
4. Attack first boxes in lab, re-read chapters 4.3 and practice on the lab (start with JD and work some of the low hanging fruit from your enumeration)
5. Chapter 13
6. Attack Alpha, Beta and potentially Mike.
7. Chapters 12, 15, 17 and 18
8. Attack Gamma, Mike and Jeff,
9. Finish off the exercises (5.2, 6-8, 9.2 and 16.7)
10. Get as far as you can in the labs.

This method worked well for me. During this time I developed my enumeration technique, using the Auto-recon script for each box, which significantly reduced the enumeration and tool running time.  by the time I got through to Gamma, Mike and Jeff I felt as though my enumeration and initial foot hold methodology was pretty well formulated and was bearing fruit. I was still needing to dive into the forums for some help for directions. For me that was part of the learning process, trying to understand other peoples approach and methodologies to try and fill the gaps in my knowledge. My exam was book about ten days before the end of my lab time as I wanted to provide additional lab time in the event of a exam failure. This left me around two weeks of lab practice between completing the lab exercises as shown above.

In the three weeks I managed to root 30ish lab machines along with unlocking the IT and Dev networks. I was still struggling with privilege escalation and trusting my initial analysis of machines. I was finding on a regular basis I was finding the correct exploit path relatively early in my methodology, but not trusting my conclusion and wasting time with rabbit holes. At this point it was still taking me up to half a day for each machine (from Auto-Recon to root) which my gut was telling me wasn't going to be quick enough for the exam. However due to timing the exam was booked and I decided to give it a go to give myself a true bench mark of knowledge/progress.

## The Exam - Fist Attempt.

So as background, the OSCP exam is a 23 hour and 45 minute practical exam, within you are expected to tackle 5 machines, with the target of gaining root (for Linux boxes) or System (for Windows boxes). The exam isn't completely blind as you have a exam control panel which describes you targets (IP Address, Points value, reporting requirement etc)as well as providing the ability to revert each machine and submit your proofs. One thing I would suggest is read the exam FAQ's very closely, print them out and have them to hand as it may help with exam nerves etc to figure out what you needed to be doing.

This is a remotely proctored exam, for which you have a series of proctors monitoring you via webcam and screen capture. I found this to be a fairly smooth process, however I had some issues with my webcam and screen feeds timing out repeatedly for a couple of hours. The Offensive Security support through this was excellent and worked with me to try and find the source of the issue. Don't worry if you have issues like this, the support that you are provided with is brilliant. Once I had settled into the flow of the exam I pretty much forgot about the proctoring element and found it un-intrusive.

I cant write much about the content of the exam, but I went with a widely reported approach of tackling to Buffer Over Flow task first, whilst using Auto-Recon to scan the other hosts, ensuring I had plenty of enumeration available when I wanted to take a look at the other machines. This approach was going well until I hit a mental stumbling block, which led me to wasting nearly five hours on a stupid problem with my analysis! Had I decided to down tools on that once I hit the block I think I might of progressed quicker. Anyway after five hours of spinning my wheels, I decided to switch tasks to the 10 point box to build my confidence and within 40 minute I had my first root.

My workflow was to pretty much write up my report as I worked away, each step I took screen shots (using Image Magik) and save the png files to a export directory and then used the PWK report template in Google Pages on my host computer to write the report. The aim of the exam report is to produce a documented procedure that someone else could complete as a cut and paste exercise, re-creating how you achieved root. This write up as I went worked fairly well, I wasn't trying to write polished wording, but instead capture the commands, reasoning and the major screen shots I required. This would then allow me to come back and polish it with ease in the further 24 hours you have to submit the report.

After rooting the ten point box, I decided to take a look at the remaining boxes to figure out where to apply effort next. I decided to spend relatively short periods of time on each box, ensuring that if I hit a dead end or a lack of progress I would switch track, trying to maintain momentum. within another hour I had a low priv root on a 20 point box, but after an hour of spinning wheel looking for privilege escalation, I decided to return to the Buffer Overflow.

Now I knew where I was going wrong with the Buffer Overflow, but previously I was pretty much just repeating the same actions and getting no where (yeah go figure!) but this time I decided to write the problem down(pen and paper (I always use this with BOF!, writing down bad chars, EIP address and other notes)) and with in an hour I had the Buffer Overflow complete and the POC machine and exam machine rooted.

Now this is pretty much as far as I managed to get, unfortunately due to my earlier errors with the Buffer Overflow, my time management was waaay off. I started at 10 am and was still spinning my wheels at 4pm with the Buffer Overflow. by 5pm I had the 10 point box and after a break for food has the low privilege root on the 20 point box. I spent the next 4 hours or so on the other machines, returning to the Buffer Overflow, finally getting shell at midnight. My low privilege shell for the 20 point box came about 1-2 am. I then made the massive mistake of trying to work my way through the night, pretty much spending the next 4-5 hours cycling between the remaining boxes and not getting very far.

After being up for nearly 24 hours, and with 2 hours remaining I calculated that I had around 40 points and came to the conclusion I wasn't going to complete this being rather sleep deprived with limited time left, so went to bed and fell asleep.

I think looking back my biggest mistake was time management as with the initial Buffer Overflow I should of switched tasks after about an hour, as it took this short period of time to get to the problem that I then spent another 4 hours failing at. theoretically if had done this earlier I might of gained my 40 points easily by late afternoon, leaving me plenty more time to gain the points I required. The other element I was weak on was Linux privilege escalation, I had low privilege shell, but just couldn't see the path to elevate my privilege.

Anyway, failed the exam on first attempt, but this is not the end of the journey.

